Q: Thou art notified that thy kind has infiltrated the galaxy too far
   already. Thou art directed to return to thine own solar system
   immediately.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Encounter at Farpoint [1.1], Season 1"
%
Q: Go back, or thou shalt most certainly die!

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Encounter at Farpoint [1.1], Season 1"
%
Q: But you can't deny that you're still a dangerous, savage child
   race.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Encounter at Farpoint [1.1], Season 1"
%
Q: ...and 400 years before that, you were murdering each other in
   quarrels over tribal god images.  Since then, there are no
   indications that humans will ever change.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Encounter at Farpoint [1.1], Season 1"
%
Q: There are preparations to make, but when we next meet, Captain,
   we'll proceed exactly as you suggest.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Encounter at Farpoint [1.1], Season 1"
%
Jean-Luc Picard: If we're going to be damned, let's be damned for what
                 we really are.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Encounter at Farpoint [1.1], Season 1"
%
Data: I am superior, sir, in many ways, but I would gladly give it up
      to be human.
William Riker: Nice to meet you... Pinocchio.
[Data stares at Riker]

William Riker: A joke.
Data: Ah! Intriguing.
William Riker: You're going to be an interesting companion, Mr. Data.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Encounter at Farpoint [1.1], Season 1"
%
Q: It is an unknown, Captain.  Isn't that enough?
Jean-Luc Picard: If you'd earned that uniform you're wearing you'd
                 know that the unknown is what brings us out here.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Encounter at Farpoint [1.1], Season 1"
%
Data: Indications of what humans would call... a wild party.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Naked Now [1.3], Season 1"
%
Data: "There was a young lady from Venus, whose body was shaped like
      a..."
Jean-Luc Picard: [frantically cutting off Data] Captain to Security,
                 come in!
Data: Did I say something wrong?
Worf: I don't understand their humor, either.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Naked Now [1.3], Season 1"
%
Tasha Yar: Data. You are fully functional, aren't you?

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Naked Now [1.3], Season 1"
%
Beverly Crusher: Where are the calluses we doctors are supposed to
                 grow over our feelings?
Jean-Luc Picard: Perhaps the good ones never get them.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Code of Honor [1.4], Season 1"
%
Data: For example, what Lutan did is similar to what certain American
      Indians once did called "counting coup."  That is from an
      obscure language known as French.  "Counting coup..."
Jean-Luc Picard: Mr. Data, the French language for centuries on Earth
                 represented civilization.
Data: Indeed?  But surely, sir...
William Riker: I suggest you drop it, Mr. Data.
Data: Yes, sir.  "Counting coup" could be something as simple as
      touching an enemy with a stick in battle or taking something
      from him and escaping.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Code of Honor [1.4], Season 1"
%
Data: [his fingers in a Chinese finger trap] Apologies, Captain. I
      seem to have reached an odd functional impasse. I am, uh...
      stuck.
Jean-Luc Picard: Then get unstuck and continue with the briefing.
Data: Yes, sir. That is what I'm trying to do, sir, but the solution
      eludes me.
Geordi La Forge: My hero.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Last Outpost [1.5], Season 1"
%
Data: If the Enterprise were really this fragile, sir, she never would
      have left spacedock. Therefore, her systems' failures are not
      endemic to the ship, but are the result of the actions of an
      unknown adversary.
William Riker: We have a saboteur aboard.
Data: I believe I said that.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Lonely Among Us [1.7], Season 1"
%
Data: It's elementary, my dear Riker. Sir.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Lonely Among Us [1.7], Season 1"
%
Edo God: [booming voice] State... the... purpose. State the purpose of
         what you have done.
Jean-Luc Picard: I'm Captain Picard, commanding this Federation
                 starship.
Edo God: State the purpose of your visit here.
Jean-Luc Picard: We have sent down what we call an away team, to make
                 peaceful contact here.
Edo God: Do you plan to leave life-forms here?
Jean-Luc Picard: No. We are merely visiting here.
Edo God: But you did more at the world you just left. Why have you
         left your own life-forms there?
Data: The colony we just planted, sir.
Jean-Luc Picard: We found that world uninhabited. The life-forms we
                 left there had... had sought the challenge-- at
                 least, that is the basic reason-- had sought the
                 challenge of creating a new lifestyle-- a new society
                 there. Life on our world is driven to protect itself
                 by seeding itself as widely as possible.
Edo God: Do not interfere with my children below.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Justice [1.8], Season 1"
%
Rivan: They are called mediators and they are needed only in one place
       each day.
Liator: The punishment zone, an area that's selected for a period of
        time.
Tasha Yar: It's a completely random selection?
Liator: No one but our mediators know what place or for how long.
        We're very proud of the wisdom of our ancestors. No person
        ever knows where or when a zone will be.
Rivan: And so no one risks death.
Worf: Death?
Rivan: By breaking any law.
Tasha Yar: Wait, explain this.
Liator: Only one punishment for any crime.
Worf: Anyone who commits any crime in the punishment zone dies?

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Justice [1.8], Season 1"
%
Liator: So, we are not yet as advanced as they are. And since you are
        advanced in other ways, too, I suggest you use your superior
        powers to rescue the Wesley boy. We will record him as a
        convicted criminal out of our reach-- an advanced person who
        luckily escaped the barbarism of this backward little world.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Justice [1.8], Season 1"
%
Data: They were able to communicate with me quite... I was about to
      say quite easily but there was nothing easy about it.
      Fortunately, they stopped short of overloading my circuitry.
Jean-Luc Picard: You're saying they? So it is a vessel of some sort?
Data: Definitely not a single entity, if that's what you mean, sir,
      although they know the Edo worship them as a god thing.
Jean-Luc Picard: They know?
Data: They recognize that this is quite expected and harmless at the
      present Edo stage of evolution.
Jean-Luc Picard: What sort of vessel?
Data: It is perhaps not what we would understand as a vessel, sir. The
      dimensions this one occupies allows them to be... well, to be in
      several places at once, that they consider that this entire star
      cluster is theirs. It was probably unwise of us to attempt to
      place a human colony in this area. Of course, there are 3,004
      other planets in this star cluster in which we could have
      colonized. The largest and closest...
Jean-Luc Picard: Data! Don't babble.
Data: Babble, sir? I am not aware that I ever babble, sir. It may be
      that from time to time I have considerable information to
      communicate, and you may question the way in which I organize
      it...
Jean-Luc Picard: Please, organize it into brief answers to my
                 questions. We have very little time. Do they accept
                 our presence at this planet?
Data: Undecided, sir.
Jean-Luc Picard: Data, please feel free to volunteer any important
                 information.
Data: I volunteer that they are now observing us, sir.
Jean-Luc Picard: To judge what kind of life-forms we are?
Data: No. It is more curiosity. I doubt that they expect us to abide
      by their value systems.
Jean-Luc Picard: Do they know of our Prime Directive?
Data: They know everything I know, sir.
Jean-Luc Picard: And if we were to violate the Prime Directive...
Beverly Crusher: That's not a fair question.
Jean-Luc Picard: How would they react?
Data: That would be a case of judging us by our own rules, sir. If we
      violate our own Prime Directive they might consider us to be
      deceitful and untrustworthy. You do recall, they cautioned us
      not to interfere with their children below. What has happened?
Beverly Crusher: The Edo want to execute my son.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Justice [1.8], Season 1"
%
Bok: It is a gift from us with which we honor the hero of Maxia.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Battle [1.9], Season 1"
%
William Riker: Your shields were failing, sir.
Jean-Luc Picard: Mm-hmm. I... improvised. With the enemy vessel coming
                 in for the kill, I ordered a sensor bearing, and when
                 it came into the return arc...
Data: You performed what Starfleet textbooks now refer to as the
      "Picard Maneuver."
Jean-Luc Picard: Well, I did what any good helmsman would have done. I
                 dropped into high warp, stopped right off the enemy
                 vessel's bow fired everything I had.
William Riker: And blowing into maximum warp speed, you appeared for
               an instant to be in two places at once.
Jean-Luc Picard: And our attacker fired on the wrong one.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Battle [1.9], Season 1"
%
Bok: Collecting on an old debt.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Battle [1.9], Season 1"
%
Bok: Die well, Captain!

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Battle [1.9], Season 1"
%
Kazago: First Officer Kazago to human Riker.
William Riker: Not now, Kazago!
Kazago: We do not wish to become involved in what is clearly a
        Federation matter...
William Riker: Fine, fine! Enterprise, out.
Kazago: You should also know that DaiMon Bok no longer commands this
        vessel. His first officer has confined him for engaging in
        this unprofitable adventure. Good luck, First Officer Riker.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Battle [1.9], Season 1"
%
Lwaxana Troi: After the young couple have removed their clothing...
Tasha Yar: The bride and groom go naked?

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Haven [1.11], Season 1"
%
Jean-Luc Picard: Earth, United States, San Francisco, California.
Computer: Time period?
Jean-Luc Picard: 1941 AD.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Big Goodbye [1.12], Season 1"
%
Data: Hiya, Doc. What's cooking?
Beverly Crusher: You know I had some trouble getting through? Where's
                 Captain Picard?
Data: He's on ice.
Beverly Crusher: Pardon?
Data: He's being grilled.
Beverly Crusher: What is he, a fish?

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Big Goodbye [1.12], Season 1"
%
Cyrus Redblock: Kill the woman.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Big Goodbye [1.12], Season 1"
%
McNary: So... this is the big good-bye.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Big Goodbye [1.12], Season 1"
%
Worf: If winning is not important, then Commander, why keep score?

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: 11001001 [1.15], Season 1"
%
William T. Riker: Keep notes. This project might turn out to be of
                  interest to future scholars.
Geordi La Forge: Really?
William T. Riker: Think about it. A blind man teaching an android to
                  paint? That's got to be worth a couple of pages in
                  someone's book.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: 11001001 [1.15], Season 1"
%
William T. Riker: What's a knock-out like you doing in a computer-
                  generated gin joint like this?
Minuet: Waiting for you.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: 11001001 [1.15], Season 1"
%
Jean-Luc Picard: Can you filter out the extraneous information?
Geordi La Forge: No, I get it all simultaneously.
Jean-Luc Picard: It's a jumble. How can you make heads or tails of it?
Geordi La Forge: I select what I want to see and disregard the rest.
Jean-Luc Picard: How is that possible?
Geordi La Forge: In a noisy room, how can you pick out one specific
                 voice or sound?
Jean-Luc Picard: I see. Something you learn.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Heart of Glory [1.20], Season 1"
%
Worf: Why do you mock me? Why do you wish to anger me?
Korris: Only to see if it is still possible.
Worf: It is.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Heart of Glory [1.20], Season 1"
%
The Peddler: Whoever you are, wherever you're from, greetings! Welcome
             to Minos, The Arsenal of Freedom!
Jean-Luc Picard: I'm Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the U.S.S. Enterp...
The Peddler: If you need a little something "special", be it for one
             target or multiple targets, we've got it, you'll see it,
             here on Minos, where we live by the motto, "Peace through
             superior firepower."
Jean-Luc Picard: To whom am I speaking...?
The Peddler: To be totally armed is to be totally secure! Remember,
             the early bird that hesitates gets wormed.
Data: It is a recorded message, sir.
The Peddler: Minos, the Arsenal of Freedom: perfection in highly
             advanced weaponry. Versatility, flexibility, and
             everything 100% guaranteed! So lock on to my signal and
             beam on down! Because we don't just provide weapons...
Jean-Luc Picard: Shut that off.
The Peddler: We provide complete weapons sys-
[the screen goes blank]

Geordi La Forge: That's a heck of a sales pitch.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Arsenal of Freedom [1.21], Season 1"
%
T'Jon: Everything's just kind of... you know... dead, I guess. It's
       all... you know... shut down.
Jean-Luc Picard: That's a little vague. What's the computer analysis?
T'Jon: Uh, the computer's not working very well.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Symbiosis [1.22], Season 1"
%
William Riker: I'm Commander William Riker of the USS Enterprise.
Armus: I am Armus. Why are you here?
William Riker: We mean you no harm. We have injured crewmen in the
               shuttlecraft, and we need to get to them. May we pass?
Armus: You haven't given me a good enough reason.
William Riker: Preserving life. All life is important to us.
Armus: Why?
William Riker: We believe everything in the universe has a right to
               exist.
Armus: An interesting notion. Which I do not share! You may leave now,
       if you wish.
Tasha Yar: We're not going anywhere without our shuttle crew.
Armus: I warn you...
Tasha Yar: Enough! We have people who need attention. We won't hurt
           you, but we must help them.
[Yar tries to walk around Armus, who hits her with an energy blast,
killing her instantly]


	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Skin of Evil [1.23], Season 1"
%
Tasha Yar: Death is that state where one lives only in the memory of
           others, which is why it is not an end. No goodbyes—just
           good memories.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Skin of Evil [1.23], Season 1"
%
Unnamed Officer: (fencing with Picard) Interesting move. What
                 technique was that?
Jean-Luc Picard: The technique of a desperate man.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: We'll Always Have Paris [1.24], Season 1"
%
Data: You are aware, Counselor, that the holodeck can be programmed to
      recreate an oceanic environment?
Deanna Troi: Data, it's just not the same. Have you ever gone for a
             real moonlight swim?
Data: One can swim in moonlight?

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Conspiracy [1.25], Season 1"
%
Worf: Are you okay?
Geordi La Forge: If I could see, I'd be seeing stars now.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Conspiracy [1.25], Season 1"
%
"Sonny" Clemonds: ...you and me can find us a couple of low-mileage
                  pit wolfies, and help 'em build a memory.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Neutral Zone [1.26], Season 1"
%
"Sonny" Clemonds: ...you're just about the prettiest lil' old doctor
                  I've ever seen.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Neutral Zone [1.26], Season 1"
%
Deanna: Captain. do what you must to protect the ship. But know this,
        I am going to have this baby.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Child [2.1], Season 2"
%
[An alien is impersonating Data.]

Alien (as Data): What is death?
Jean-Luc Picard: Oh, is that all. Data, you're asking probably the
                 most difficult of all questions. Some see it as a
                 changing into an indestructible form, forever
                 unchanging. They believe that the purpose of the
                 entire universe is to then maintain that form in an
                 Earth-like garden which will give delight and
                 pleasure through all eternity. On the other hand
                 there are those who hold to the idea of our blinking
                 into nothingness with all of our experiences and
                 hopes and dreams merely a delusion.
Alien (as Data): Which do you believe sir?
Jean-Luc Picard: Considering the marvelous complexity of the universe,
                 its clockwork perfection, its balances of this
                 against that... matter, energy, gravitation, time,
                 dimension, I believe that our existence must be more
                 than either of these philosophies. That what we are
                 goes beyond euclidean or other 'practical' measuring
                 systems... and that our existence is part of a
                 reality beyond what we understand now as reality.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Where Silence Has Lease [2.2], Season 2"
%
Jean-Luc Picard: (to Okona) Now please, follow Cmdr. Rikers' commands
                 so our ship can go back to its normal routine.
[Riker smiles broadly.]

Jean-Luc Picard: Something funny?
William T. Riker: Well, the unexpected is our normal routine.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Outrageous Okona [2.4], Season 2"
%
Worf: I've studied, and know everything about my heritage.
William Riker: Then you're just the person I need to talk to too clear
               something up.
William Riker: It's been my understanding that one of the duties of
               the First Officer of the Klingon vessel is to
               assassinate his Captain?
Worf: Yes, sir.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: A Matter of Honor [2.8], Season 2"
%
Ensign Mendon: Not very hospitable, are they?
Worf: That is not your concern. Observe your station, Ensign Mendon.
Ensign Mendon: Didn't mean to offend you.
Worf: You didn't. Yet.
[Ensign Mendon awkwardly walks the other way]



	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: A Matter of Honor [2.8], Season 2"
%
Jean-Luc Picard: If we were not surrounded by all these people, you
                 know what I would like to do?
Phillipa Louvois: Bust a chair across my teeth, probably.
Jean-Luc Picard: After that.
Phillipa Louvois: Oh, ain't love wonderful?

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Measure of a Man [2.9], Season 2"
%
Phillipa Louvois: [to Picard] I never thought I'd say this, but it's
                  good to see you again. It brings a sense of order
                  and stability to my universe to know that you're
                  still a pompous ass...and a damn sexy man.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Measure of a Man [2.9], Season 2"
%
Guinan: Consider that in the history of many worlds there have always
        been disposable creatures. They do the dirty work. They do the
        work that no one else wants to do, because it's too difficult
        and too hazardous. With an army of Datas, all disposable, you
        don't have to think about their welfare, or you don't think
        about how they feel. Whole generations of disposable people.
Jean-Luc Picard: You're talking about slavery.
Guinan: I think that's a little harsh.
Jean-Luc Picard: I don't think that's a little harsh, I think that's
                 the truth. That's the truth that we have obscured
                 behind...a comfortable, easy euphemism. 'Property.'
                 But that's not the issue at all, is it?

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Measure of a Man [2.9], Season 2"
%
William T. Riker: [demonstrating Data is a machine by deactivating him
                  in the courtroom] Pinocchio is broken; its strings
                  have been cut.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Measure of a Man [2.9], Season 2"
%
Jean-Luc Picard: Starfleet was founded to seek out new life. Well,
                 there it sits... waiting!

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Measure of a Man [2.9], Season 2"
%
Jean-Luc Picard: Now tell me, Commander, what is Data?
Bruce Maddox: I...I don't understand.
Jean-Luc Picard: [shouting] What is he?
Bruce Maddox: A machine!
Jean-Luc Picard: Is he? Are you sure?
Bruce Maddox: Yes!
Jean-Luc Picard: You see, he's already met two of your criteria for
                 sentience, so what about the third? Consciousness, in
                 even the smallest degree! What is he then? I don't
                 know. [to Maddox] Do you? [to Riker] Do you? [to
                 Louvois] Do you?

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Measure of a Man [2.9], Season 2"
%
Phillipa Louvois: It sits there looking at me, and I don't know what
                  it is. This case has dealt with metaphysics, with
                  questions best left to saints and philosophers. I am
                  neither competent nor qualified to answer those.
                  I've got to make a ruling, to try to speak to the
                  future. Is Data a machine? Yes. Is he the property
                  of Starfleet? No. We have all been dancing around
                  the basic issue. Does Data have a soul? I don't know
                  that he has. I don't know that I have! But I have
                  got to give him the freedom to explore that question
                  himself. It is the ruling of this court that
                  Lieutenant Commander Data has the freedom to choose.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Measure of a Man [2.9], Season 2"
%
Worf: [about Salia] Do not be deceived by her looks. The body is just
      a shell.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Dauphin [2.10], Season 2"
%
William T. Riker: Fate. It protects fools, little children, and ships
                  named "Enterprise."

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Contagion [2.11], Season 2"
%
William T. Riker: If it should become necessary to fight, can you
                  arrange to find me some rocks to throw at them.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Contagion [2.11], Season 2"
%
[Data accidentally activates an Iconian gateway]

Data: That was not manual override.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Contagion [2.11], Season 2"
%
[Data's positronic brain has been corrupted by the Iconian computer]

Data: Blue, amber, amber, red.
Jean-Luc Picard: That's the launch sequence? [Data gives a jerky nod.]
                 How do I override the doors?
Data: Blue, blue, blue
Jean-Luc Picard: I hope that is not a stutter.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Contagion [2.11], Season 2"
%
Worf: Captain, you will be killed.
Jean-Luc Picard: I'll go through the gate.
Worf: But where will you end up?
Jean-Luc Picard: Very shortly anywhere will be preferable to this
                 room.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Contagion [2.11], Season 2"
%
William Riker: But the probability of making a six is no greater than
               that of rolling a seven.
Data: There is a certain degree of random fortune involved. I believe
      that is why they call it 'gambling'.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Royale [2.12], Season 2"
%
Q: You judge yourselves against the pitiful adversaries you've
   encountered so far: the Romulans, the Klingons... They're nothing
   compared to what's waiting. Picard, you are about to move into
   areas of the galaxy containing wonders more incredible than you can
   possibly imagine... and terrors to freeze your soul. I offer myself
   as a guide -- only to be rejected out of hand.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Q Who [2.16], Season 2"
%
Q: (to Worf) Micro-brain! Growl for me, let me know you still care!

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Q Who [2.16], Season 2"
%
William T. Riker: Travel time to the nearest starbase?
Data: [OC] At maximum warp, in two years, seven months, three days,
      eighteen hours we would reach Starbase 185.
William T. Riker: Why?
Q: Why? Why, to give you a taste of your future, a preview of things
   to come. Con permiso, Capitan. The hall is rented, the orchestra
   engaged. It's now time to see if you can dance.
(Q vanishes)

Jean-Luc Picard: Guinan, your people have been in this part of the
                 galaxy.
Guinan (quietly): Yes.
William T. Riker: What can you tell us?
Guinan: Only that if I were you, I'd start back now.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Q Who [2.16], Season 2"
%
Guinan: My people encountered them a century ago. They destroyed our
        cities, scattered my people throughout the galaxy. They're
        called the Borg. Protect yourself, Captain, or they'll destroy
        you.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Q Who [2.16], Season 2"
%
The Borg: We have analyzed your defensive capabilities as being unable
          to withstand us. If you defend yourselves, you will be
          punished.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Q Who [2.16], Season 2"
%
Q: The Borg is the ultimate user. They're unlike any threat your
   Federation has ever faced. They're not interested in political
   conquest, wealth or power as you know it. They're simply interested
   in your ship. Its technology. They've identified it as something
   they can consume.
William T. Riker: You brought us here, you exposed us to it, and you
                  cost us the lives of our ship-mates!
Q: Oh, please...
Jean-Luc Picard: (to Riker) Number One. (to Q) Eighteen of our people
                 have died. Please, tell us that this is one of your
                 illusions.
Q: Oh, no. This is as real as your so-called life gets. [disappears]

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Q Who [2.16], Season 2"
%
Q: If you can't take a little bloody nose, maybe you ought to go back
   home and crawl under your bed. It's not safe out here! It's
   wondrous, with treasures to satiate desires both subtle and
   gross...but it's not for the timid.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Q Who [2.16], Season 2"
%
Grebnedlog: We are Pakleds. Our ship is the Mondor. [indicates some
            engineers trying to fix the ship's warp drive] It is
            broken.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Samaritan Snare [2.17], Season 2"
%
Jean-Luc Picard: (telling Wesley about his early career) My mates and
                 I were at the Bonestell Recreation Facility, which
                 was something of a dead rough crossroads at the time,
                 filled with an assorted bunch of galactic riffraff.
                 When a trio of Nausicaans came in, they were clearly
                 spoiling for a confrontation with a group of fresh-
                 faced Starfleet officers such as ourselves. Well,
                 everyone in the group had the good sense to give
                 these Nausicaans a wide berth, to stand off.
                 Everyone, that is, except me. I stood toe to toe with
                 the worst of the three, and I told him what I thought
                 of him, his pals, his planet, and I possibly made
                 some passing reference to his questionable parentage.
                 And the next thing I knew, all three of them were on
                 me and I was fighting for my life. I was actually
                 doing quite well for a while, too.
Wesley Crusher: You fought them? And won?
Jean-Luc Picard: I had this one Nausicaan down in this somewhat
                 devious joint-lock when, unbeknownst to me, one of
                 his chums drew his weapon and impaled me through the
                 back. Curious sensation, actually. Not much pain.
                 Shock, certainly, at the sight of serrated metal
                 sticking through my chest. A certain giddy warmth. In
                 fact I do actually remember that I laughed out loud.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Samaritan Snare [2.17], Season 2"
%
Brenna: (disgustedly) Are you drunk yet, or can you go an' talk to Dr.
        Pulaski about the children?
Danilo: What about them?
Brenna: She wants to send them to school with the ship's children.
Danilo: W - what do you think?
Brenna: I think it's a good idea. So go handle it! (She looks
        pointedly at other Bringloidi hanging around nearby) And I'm
        sure there's somethin' you can be doin' with your time...(she
        turns to Worf) And as for YOU -!
Worf (irritated and incredulous): What?!
Brenna: Why'd you have to go an' tell them this magic wall can give
        'em more than just meat an' potatoes? Now we'll never get a
        lick o' work out of them!
Worf: (still irritated) Madam - have you ever considered a career in
      security?!
Brenna: If it's anythin' like babysittin', I'm an authority!

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Up the Long Ladder [2.18], Season 2"
%
Data: Judging a being by its physical appearance is the last major
      human prejudice, Wesley.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Manhunt [2.19], Season 2"
%
Worf: You are late.
K'Ehleyr: Sorry, had to make myself beautiful.
Worf: I fail to understand why.
K’Ehleyr: Worf, we’re alone now. You don’t have to act like a Klingon
          glacier, I don’t bite… actually, that’s not true, I do bite.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Emissary [2.20], Season 2"
%
Troi: You’re upset.
K’Ehleyr: Your finely honed Betazoid sense tell you that?
Troi: Well… that and the table.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Emissary [2.20], Season 2"
%
Picard: Lieutenant, I order you to relax.
Worf: I AM RELAXED!

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Emissary [2.20], Season 2"
%
Jean-Luc Picard: (in response to Kolrami's criticism of Riker's
                 "jocularity") Will Riker is the finest officer with
                 whom I have ever served. Don't confuse style with
                 intent.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Peak Performance [2.21], Season 2"
%
Jean-Luc Picard: It is possible to commit no mistakes and still lose.
                 That is not a weakness; that is life.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Peak Performance [2.21], Season 2"
%
Dr. Stubbs: Now the burden is yours.
Wesley Crusher: Burden?
Dr. Stubbs: To fulfill your potential. You will never come up against
            a greater adversary than your own potential, my young
            friend.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Evolution [3.1], Season 3"
%
Wesley Crusher: It's just a science project.
Guinan: You know, a doctor friend once said the same thing to me.
        Frankenstein was his name.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Evolution [3.1], Season 3"
%
Worf: This is hopeless. Fighting would be preferable.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Ensigns of Command [3.2], Season 3"
%
Jean-Luc Picard: Pursuant to paragraph one thousand, two hundred and
                 ninety, I hereby formally request third party
                 arbitration of our dispute.
Sheliak Captain: You have the right.
Jean-Luc Picard: Furthermore, pursuant to subsection D3, I name ...
                 the Grizzelas to arbitrate.
Sheliak Captain: Grizzelas?
William Riker: (mouths) Grizzelas?
Jean-Luc Picard: Unfortunately, they are currently in their
                 hibernation cycle. However, they will awaken in six
                 months, at which time we can get this matter settled.
                 Now, do you want to wait... or give me my three
                 weeks?
Sheliak Captain: Absurd! We carry the membership! We can brook no
                 delay!
Jean-Luc Picard: Then I hereby declare this treaty in abeyance.
Sheliak Captain: Wait! Negotiation is permiss...!
[Picard signals Worf to cut the transmission.]

William Riker: You enjoyed that.
Jean-Luc Picard: You're damned right.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Ensigns of Command [3.2], Season 3"
%
Jean-Luc Picard: We're not qualified to be your judges. We have no law
                 to fit your crime.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Survivors [3.3], Season 3"
%
Nuria: That is my home?
Picard: Seen from far, far above.
Nuria: Yet we do not fall. I never imagined I would see the clouds
       from the other side. Your powers are truly boundless.
Picard: Nuria, your people live in huts. Was it always so?
Nuria: No. We have found remnants of tools in caves. Our ancestors
       must have lived there.
Picard: So why do you now live in huts?
Nuria (matter-of-factly): Huts are better. Caves are dark and wet.
Picard: If huts are better, why did you once live in caves?
Nuria: The most reasonable explanation would be that at one time we
       didn't know how to make huts.
Picard: Just as at one time you did not know how to weave cloth, how
        to make a bow.
Nuria: That would be reasonable.
Picard: Someone invented a hut. Someone invented a bow, who taught
        others, who taught their children, who built a stronger hut,
        built a better bow, who taught their children. Now, Nuria,
        suppose one of your cave dwelling ancestors could see you as
        you are today. What would she think?
Nuria: I don't know.
Picard: Put yourself in her place. You see, she cannot kill a hornbuck
        at a great distance. You can. You have a power she lacks.
Nuria: Only because I have a bow.
Picard: She's never seen a bow. It doesn't exist in her world. To you,
        it's a simple tool. To her, it's magic.
Nuria: I suppose she might think so.
Picard: Now, how would she react to you?
Nuria: I think she would fear me.
Picard: Just as you fear me.
Nuria: I do not fear you any longer.
Picard: Good. That's good. You see, my people once lived in caves. And
        then we learned to build huts and, in time, to build ships
        like this one.
Nuria: Perhaps one day, my people will travel above the skies.
Picard (softly, but with utter conviction and admiration): Of that, I
                                                           have
                                                           absolutely
                                                           no doubt.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Who Watches the Watchers [3.4], Season 3"
%
Crusher: Crusher to Picard. I think we're going to lose Warren.
Picard [OC]: On my way.
Barron: I'm here, Mary.
(Picard and Nuria enter)


Crusher: Prepare two cc's of norep.
(but Mary Warren gives up the struggle to breathe)


Crusher: I'm sorry.
(Crusher and Barron leave, and Nuria approaches the death bed)


Nuria: Picard, you could not save her?
Picard: No.
Nuria: You do have limits. You are not masters of life and death.
Picard: No, we are not. We can cure many diseases and we can repair
        injuries, we can even extend life. (bleakly) But for all our
        knowledge, all our advances, we are just as mortal as you are.
        We're just as powerless to prevent the inevitable.
Nuria: You are a remarkable people, but you are not superior beings.
       My people must be made to understand that.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Who Watches the Watchers [3.4], Season 3"
%
Dr. Beverly Crusher: Lieutenant, I understand your feelings about the
                     Romulans, but this is not the time or the place.
Worf: If you had seen them kill your parents, you would understand,
      Doctor. It is always the time and the place for those feelings.
Beverly Crusher: This Romulan didn't kill your parents. And you are
                 the only one who can save his life.
Worf: Then he will die.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Enemy [3.7], Season 3"
%
Bochra: [referring to Geordi's blindness] How did this happen?
Geordi La Forge: I was born that way.
Bochra: And your parents let you live?
Geordi La Forge: What kind of question is that! Of course they let me
                 live.
Bochra: No wonder your race is weak. You waste time and resources on
        defective children.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Enemy [3.7], Season 3"
%
Bochra: I have no more wish to die than you do.
Geordi La Forge: Bochra, there are times when it is necessary to die
                 for one's ideals... do you believe this is one of
                 those times?
[Bochra thinks, then lowers his disruptor.]

Geordi La Forge: Let's go find that beacon.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Enemy [3.7], Season 3"
%
DaiMon Goss: My name is DaiMon Goss and these are my counsels, Kol and
             Dr Aridor. We'll need chairs.
Jean-Luc Picard: I'm Captain Picard of the Enterprise. I am serving as
                 host for these proceedings.
DaiMon Goss: Good. Then see to it we get some chairs.
Picard: Let me explain.
DaiMon Goss: Fine, fine, just have your Klingon servant get us some
             chairs.
Worf: I am in charge of security!
DaiMon Goss: Then who gets the chairs?

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Price [3.8], Season 3"
%
[Picard reports that the Angosian fugitive has been captured.]

Prime Minister Nayrok: Do not relax your security for an instant,
                       Captain. He is extremely violent, and very
                       cunning, as you already know.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Hunted [3.11], Season 3"
%
Jean-Luc Picard: A matter of internal security: the age-old cry of the
                 oppressor.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Hunted [3.11], Season 3"
%
[Worf catches Danar in a clever head-fake scheme.]

Worf: Danar! You are cunning... you must have Klingon blood.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Hunted [3.11], Season 3"
%
Jean-Luc Picard: We have everything we need for our report. Your
                 prisoner has been returned to you. You have a
                 decision to make: either try to force them back or
                 welcome them home. In your own words, this is not our
                 affair. We cannot interfere with the natural course
                 of your society's development and I'd say it's likely
                 to develop significantly during the next several
                 minutes.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Hunted [3.11], Season 3"
%
Alexana Devos: In a world where children blow up children, everyone's
               a threat.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The High Ground [3.12], Season 3"
%
Kyril Finn: You added the chair, Captain, I am just making you sit in
            it.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The High Ground [3.12], Season 3"
%
Dr. Beverly Crusher: He's prepared to kill you.
Jean-Luc Picard: An excellent reason to escape.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The High Ground [3.12], Season 3"
%
[After Q appears on the bridge naked]

Picard: Q!
Q: [playfully mocking his embarrassment] Red alert!

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Déjà Q [3.13], Season 3"
%
Q: And since I was given only a fraction of a second to mull, I chose
   this, and asked them to bring me here.
Deanna Troi: Why?
Q: Because in all the universe, you are the closest thing I have to a
   friend, Jean-Luc.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Déjà Q [3.13], Season 3"
%
Q: I have no powers! Q the ordinary!
Picard: Q the liar! Q the misanthrope!
Q: Q the miserable, Q the desperate! What must I do to convince you
   people?
Worf: Die!
Q: Oh, very clever, Worf. Eat any good books lately?

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Déjà Q [3.13], Season 3"
%
Q: (to Worf) I can't disappear any more than you could win a beauty
   contest.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Déjà Q [3.13], Season 3"
%
Q: It's easy. Just change the gravitational constant of the universe.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Déjà Q [3.13], Season 3"
%
Q: I'm not good in groups. It's hard to work in groups when you're
   omnipotent.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Déjà Q [3.13], Season 3"
%
Q: Dr Crusher, Starfleet have sent you into exile again.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Déjà Q [3.13], Season 3"
%
Q: Your bedside manner is admirable, Doctor. I'm sure your patients
   must recover quickly... (sotto voce) just to get away from you.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Déjà Q [3.13], Season 3"
%
Q: I'll have 10 chocolate sundaes.
Data: I have never seen anyone eat 10 chocolate sundaes.
Q: I'm in a really bad mood. And since I've never eaten before, I
   should be very hungry.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Déjà Q [3.13], Season 3"
%
Data: The Captain and many of the crew are not yet convinced he is
      truly human.
Guinan: Really?
[She picks up a fork and stabs Q's hand with it.]

Q: AAAAAHHHH!!!
Guinan: Seems human enough to me.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Déjà Q [3.13], Season 3"
%
Q: I wasn't the one who misplaced the entire Deltivid Asteroid Belt!

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Déjà Q [3.13], Season 3"
%
Q: This is getting on my nerves, now that I have them!

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Déjà Q [3.13], Season 3"
%
Q: All right, everyone, this is what we're going to be doing.
LaForge: Q, everybody already knows what they're going to do, except
         for you, Now here's what I need.
Q: La Forge, obviously my knowledge and experience far exceed yours by
   about a billion times. So, if you'll just step aside gracefully.
LaForge: Q, your experience will be most valuable to me if you can
         manually control the field integrity.
Q: Don't be foolish. That would be a waste of my talents.
LaForge: Q, get to the controls or get the hell out of here! Data,
         you're my liaison to the Bridge. I'll need you with me.
Q: Who does he think he is, giving me orders?
Data: Geordi thinks he is in command here...and he is correct.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Déjà Q [3.13], Season 3"
%
Jean-Luc Picard: Q, you exceed your own standards for self-
                 preoccupation.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Déjà Q [3.13], Season 3"
%
Picard: [After Q stole a shuttle] This goes against my better
        judgment. Transporter Room 3, lock onto Shuttle 1 and beam it
        back into its bay.
Crewman: Aye, sir.
Picard: [after Riker gives him a disapproving look] It's a perfectly
        good shuttlecraft!

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Déjà Q [3.13], Season 3"
%
[Guinan gives Worf a small glass of deep purple liquid]

Guinan: All right, try this.
Worf: What is it?
Guinan: Just try it.
[Worf drinks. After a moment, he looks at the glass, astonished, then
up at Guinan]

Guinan: You see? It's an Earth drink. Prune juice.
[looking at the glass appreciatively]

Worf: [awestruck] A warrior's drink.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Yesterday's Enterprise [3.15], Season 3"
%
Jean-Luc Picard: How can I ask them to sacrifice themselves based
                 solely on your intuition?
Guinan: I don't know. But I do know that this is a mistake. Every
        fiber in my being says this is a mistake. I can't explain it
        to myself, so I can't explain it to you. I only know that I'm
        right.
Jean-Luc Picard: Who is to say that this history is any less proper
                 than the other?
Guinan: I suppose I am.
Jean-Luc Picard: Not good enough, damn it, not good enough! I will not
                 ask them to die!
Guinan: 40 billion people have already died. This war is not supposed
        to be happening. You've got to send those people back to
        correct this.
Jean-Luc Picard: And what is to guarantee that if they go back, they
                 will succeed? Every instinct is telling me this is
                 wrong, it is dangerous, it is futile!
Guinan: We've known each other a long time. You have never known me to
        impose myself on anyone, or take a stance based on trivial or
        whimsical perceptions. This timeline must not be allowed to
        continue. Now, I've told you what you must do. You have only
        your trust in me to help you decide to do it.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Yesterday's Enterprise [3.15], Season 3"
%
Rachel Garrett: To be honest with you, Picard... a significant number
                of my crew members have expressed the desire to
                return, even knowing the odds. Some because they can't
                bear to live without their loved ones; some because
                they don't like the idea of slipping out in the middle
                of a fight. But I have told them that, in the here and
                now the Federation needs another ship against the
                Klingons, and we'd better get used to being in the
                here and now.
Jean-Luc Picard: But, if you go back, it could be a great deal more
                 helpful. The war is going very badly for the
                 Federation... far worse than is generally known.
                 Starfleet Command believes that defeat is inevitable.
                 Within six months, we may have no choice but to
                 surrender.
Rachel Garrett: And you're saying that all this may be a result of our
                arrival here?
Jean-Luc Picard: One more ship will make no difference in the here and
                 now, but 22 years ago, one ship could have stopped
                 this war before it started.
Rachel Garrett: Mr. Castillo.
Richard Castillo: Yes, Captain.
Rachel Garrett: Inform the crew we're going back.
Richard Castillo: Yes, Captain.
Rachel Garrett: The Romulans will get a good fight. We'll make it one
                for the history books.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Yesterday's Enterprise [3.15], Season 3"
%
Guinan: Can I get you something, Tasha?
Tasha Yar: Guinan, I have to know something. What happens to me in the
           other time line?
Guinan: I don't have alternate biographies of the crew. As I said to
        the captain, it's just a feeling.
Tasha Yar: But there's something more when you look at me, isn't
           there? I can see it in your eyes, Guinan. We've known each
           other too long.
Guinan: We weren't meant to know each other at all! At least...that's
        what I sense when I look at you. Tasha, you're not supposed to
        be here.
Tasha Yar: Where am I supposed to be?
Guinan: Dead.
Tasha Yar: Do you know how?
Guinan: No. But I do know it was an empty death. A death without
        purpose.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Yesterday's Enterprise [3.15], Season 3"
%
Jean-Luc Picard: Come. Yes, Lieutenant?
Tasha Yar: Captain, I request a transfer to the Enterprise-C.
Jean-Luc Picard: For what reason?
Tasha Yar: They need someone at Tactical.
Jean-Luc Picard: We need you here.
Tasha Yar: I'm not supposed to be here, sir.
Jean-Luc Picard: Sit down, Lieutenant. What did she say to you?
Tasha Yar: I don't belong here, sir. I'm supposed to be...dead.
Jean-Luc Picard: She felt it necessary to reveal that to you?
Tasha Yar: I felt it was necessary.
Jean-Luc Picard: I see. You realise that it is very possible the
                 Enterprise-C will fail. We will continue in this time
                 line, in which case your life, hopefully, will
                 continue for a long while.
Tasha Yar: I know how important it is that they don't fail, Captain.
           That's why I'm requesting this transfer.
Jean-Luc Picard: You don't belong on that ship, Lieutenant.
Tasha Yar: No, Captain Garrett belongs on that ship. But she's dead.
           And I think there's a certain logic in this request.
Jean-Luc Picard: There's no logic in this at all! Whether they succeed
                 or not, the Enterprise-C will be destroyed!
Tasha Yar: But Captain, at least with someone at Tactical they will
           have a chance to defend themselves well. It may be a matter
           of seconds or minutes, but those could be the minutes that
           change history. Guinan says I died a senseless death in the
           other time line. I didn't like the sound of that, Captain.
           I've always known the risks that come with a Starfleet
           uniform. If I'm to die in one, I'd like my death to count
           for something.
Jean-Luc Picard (after a thoughtful pause): Lieutenant...permission
                                            granted.
Tasha Yar: Thank you, sir.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Yesterday's Enterprise [3.15], Season 3"
%
Jean-Luc Picard: (prior to battle) Attention all hands! As you know,
                 we could outrun the Klingon vessels, but we must
                 protect the Enterprise-C until she re-enters the
                 temporal rift. And we must succeed. Let's make sure
                 that history never forgets the name Enterprise.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Yesterday's Enterprise [3.15], Season 3"
%
Data: Doctor? I require your advice as a successful parent.
Crusher: Well, thank you, Data. I'd like to think I was. Well, please
         sit down. How's Lal?
Data: Lal is realising she is not the same as other children.
Crusher: Is it lonely for her?
Data: She does not feel the emotion of loneliness, but she can observe
      how isolated she is from the others. She wishes to be more like
      them. I do not know how to help her. Lal is passing into
      sentience. It is perhaps the most difficult stage of her
      development.
Crusher: When Wesley was growing up, he was an extraordinarily bright
         boy, but he had a hard time making friends. I think the other
         children were a little intimidated by him.
Data: That is precisely what happened to Lal in school. How did you
      help him?
Crusher: Well, first I went back to my own childhood and remembered
         how painful it was for me. Because I remember a time when I
         wasn't very popular either. And when I told that to Wesley,
         it made him feel a little better. He knew I understood what
         he was going through.
Data: I have not told Lal how difficult it was for me to assimilate. I
      did not wish it to discourage her. Perhaps this was an error of
      judgement.
Crusher: You didn't have anyone experienced to help you through
         sentience. She at least has you. Just help her realise that
         she's not alone, and be there to nurture her when she needs
         love and attention.
Data: I can give her attention, Doctor. But I am incapable of giving
      her love. (Data leaves)
Crusher: Now why do I find that so hard to believe?

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Offspring [3.16], Season 3"
%
Data: Lal is my child. You ask that I volunteer to give her up. I
      cannot. It would violate every lesson I have learned about human
      parenting. I have brought a new life into this world, and it is
      my duty, not Starfleet's, to guide her through these difficult
      steps to maturity. To support her as she learns. To prepare her
      to be a contributing member of society. No one can relieve me
      from that obligation. And I cannot ignore it. I am... her
      father.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Offspring [3.16], Season 3"
%
Data: Then he is questioning my ability as a parent.
Jean-Luc Picard: In a manner of speaking.
Data: Does the Admiral have children, sir?
Jean-Luc Picard: I believe he does. Why?
Data: I am forced to wonder how much experience he had as a parent
      when his first child was born.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Offspring [3.16], Season 3"
%
Jean-Luc Picard: There are times, sir, when men of good conscience
                 cannot blindly follow orders. You acknowledge their
                 sentience, but ignore their personal liberties and
                 freedom. Order a man to turn his child over to the
                 state? Not while I'm his captain.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Offspring [3.16], Season 3"
%
[A shaken Admiral Haftel exits Data's laboratory as Data is trying to
save Lal.]

Admiral Haftel: His hands were moving faster than I could see, trying
                to stay ahead of each breakdown. He refused to give
                up. He was remarkable... It just wasn't meant to be.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Offspring [3.16], Season 3"
%
Lal: I love you, father.
Data: I wish I could feel it with you.
Lal: Then I will feel it for both of us.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Offspring [3.16], Season 3"
%
K'mpek: (high-ranking Klingon) This is not the Federation, Picard. If
        you defy an order of the High Council, the alliance with the
        Federation could fall to dust.
Jean-Luc Picard: The alliance with the Federation is not based on
                 lies, K'mpec. Protect your secrets if you must, but
                 you will not sacrifice these men.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Sins of the Father [3.17], Season 3"
%
Jean-Luc Picard: Is the entire crew aware of this little scheme to
                 send me off on holiday?
William Riker: I believe there are two ensigns stationed on deck 39
               who know nothing about it.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Captain's Holiday [3.19], Season 3"
%
Reginald Barclay: I mean I am the guy who writes down things to
                  remember to say when there is a party. And then when
                  he finally gets there he winds up alone, in the
                  corner, trying to look... comfortable examining a
                  potted plant.
Geordi La Forge: You're just shy.
Reginald Barclay: Sounds as if it's nothing serious, doesn't it? You
                  can't know.



	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Hollow Pursuits [3.21], Season 3"
%
William Riker: For an android with no feelings, he sure managed to
               evoke them in others.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Most Toys [3.22], Season 3"
%
Fajo: That's all you have to do, go ahead. Fire. If only you could
      feel rage over Varria's death. If only you could feel a need for
      revenge, then maybe you could fire. But you're just an android.
      You can't feel anything, can you? It's just another interesting
      intellectual puzzle for you, another of life's curiosities.
Data: [to himself] I cannot permit this to continue.
[The transporter beam transports Data as he raises his weapon]


	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Most Toys [3.22], Season 3"
%
[As Commander Data is transported back aboard the Enterprise, a weapon
is detected in a state of discharge and deactivated]

Data: [handing his weapon to Riker] A Varon-T disruptor. It belongs to
      Fajo.
Riker: Mr O'Brien says the weapon was in a state of discharge.
Data: Perhaps something occurred during transport, Commander.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Most Toys [3.22], Season 3"
%
William Riker: Is it my imagination, or have tempers become a little
               frayed on the ship lately?
Worf: I hadn't noticed.
[Riker and Worf walk into Ten-Forward, where a large bar fight is in
progress.]

Worf: I see what you mean.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Sarek [3.23], Season 3"
%
Jean-Luc Picard: NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO!!!! It is... it is... wrong! IT
                 IS WRONG!! A lifetime of discipline washed away, and
                 in its place... [laughs awkwardly, then grunts]
                 Bedlam. BEDLAM! I'm so old. There is nothing left but
                 dry bones, and dead friends. Oh... tired. Oh, so
                 tired.
Beverly Crusher: It will pass, all of it. Just another hour or so,
                 you're doing fine, just hold on.
Jean-Luc Picard: NO! This weakness disgusts me! I HATE IT! Where is my
                 logic? I'm betrayed by... desires. Oh, I want to
                 feel, I want to feel... everything. But I am... a
                 Vulcan. I must feel nothing! Give me back my control!
                 [he sobs uncontrollably]
Beverly Crusher: Jean-Luc!
Jean-Luc Picard: Pe- Perrin... Amanda... I - wanted - to give you - so
                 much more. I wanted to show you such... t- t-
                 tenderness. But that is not our way. Spock...
                 Amanda... Did you know? P-Perrin, can you - know...
                 how - much I - love - you? I - do - LOVE YOU!
[Picard weeps heavily, then manages to compose himself]

Jean-Luc Picard: Beverly...
Beverly Crusher: I'm here, Jean-Luc. I'm not going anywhere.
Jean-Luc Picard: It's... quite difficult. The anguish of the man. The
                 despair... pouring out of him, all those feelings.
                 The regrets. [sobs] I c- I can't... stop them! I
                 can't stop them, I can't. I can't...! [breaks down
                 crying]
Beverly Crusher: [comforting him] Don't even try.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Sarek [3.23], Season 3"
%
Worf: Less talk! More synthehol!

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Transfigurations [3.25], Season 3"
%
John: They tried to convince us it was a sickness we would never
      survive, that the pain and energy pulses would kill us. They
      claimed we were dangerous, so they destroyed anyone who
      exhibited the signs of the transfiguration.
Sunad: We were protecting our society!
John: By murdering us? You saw the mutations as a threat to your
      authority, you were terrified of something you couldn't
      understand. Some suspected that what was happening to them was
      not evil. Four of us decided to flee Zalkon and let the
      metamorphosis take its course. You hunted us down, killed the
      others. But I survived, with the help of a kind and generous
      people.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Transfigurations [3.25], Season 3"
%
Data: Early bird gets the worm? I believe Commander Shelby erred.
      There is no evidence of avian or crawling vermicular lifeforms
      on Jouret IV.
Geordi: That's not what she meant, Data. But you are right. She erred.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Best of Both Worlds, Part I [3.26], Season 3"
%
Picard: It's something of a tradition, Guinan - Captain touring the
        ship before a battle.
Guinan: Hmm. Before a hopeless battle, if I remember the tradition
        correctly.
Picard: Not necessarily. Nelson toured the HMS Victory before
        Trafalgar.
Guinan: Yes, but Nelson never returned from Trafalgar, did he?
Picard: No, but the battle was won.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Best of Both Worlds, Part I [3.26], Season 3"
%
Picard: I wonder if the Emperor Honorius watching the Visigoths coming
        over the seventh hill could truly realize that the Roman
        Empire was about to fall. This is really just another page of
        history, isn't it? Will this be the end of our civilization?
        Turn the page.
Guinan: (gently) This isn't the end.
Picard: You say that with remarkable assuredness.
Guinan: With experience. When the Borg destroyed my world, my people
        were scattered throughout the Universe. We survived. As will
        humanity survive. As long as there's a handful of you to keep
        the spirit alive, you will prevail...even if it takes a
        millennium.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Best of Both Worlds, Part I [3.26], Season 3"
%
The Borg: Captain Jean-Luc Picard. You lead the strongest ship of the
          Federation Starfleet. You speak for your people.
Picard: I have nothing to say to you. And I will resist you with my
        last ounce of strength!
The Borg: Strength is irrelevant. Resistance is futile. We wish to
          improve ourselves. We will add your biological and
          technological distinctiveness to our own. Your culture will
          adapt to service ours.
Picard: Impossible! My culture is based on freedom and self-
        determination!
The Borg: Freedom is irrelevant. Self-determination is irrelevant. You
          must comply.
Picard: We would rather die.
The Borg: Death is irrelevant. Your archaic cultures are authority
          driven. To facilitate our introduction into your societies,
          it has been decided that a human voice will speak for us in
          all communications. You have been chosen to be that voice.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Best of Both Worlds, Part I [3.26], Season 3"
%
William Riker: They couldn't have adapted that quickly!
Locutus: [to Riker] The knowledge and experience of the human Picard
         is part of us now. It has prepared us for all possible
         courses of action. Your resistance is hopeless... Number One.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Best of Both Worlds, Part II [4.1], Season 4"
%
Riker: Now, how the hell do we defeat an enemy that knows us better
       than we know ourselves?
Worf: The Borg have neither honour nor courage. That is our greatest
      advantage.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Best of Both Worlds, Part II [4.1], Season 4"
%
Locutus: If you attempt to intervene, we will destroy you.
Riker: Then take your best shot, Locutus. 'Cause we're about to
       "intervene."

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Best of Both Worlds, Part II [4.1], Season 4"
%
Rene Picard: You know, you don't seem so arro... arro... Y'know!
Jean-Luc Picard: Arrogant?
Rene Picard: Yes! Arrogant! You don't seem that way to me. What does
             it mean, anyway? Arrogant Son of a-
Jean-Luc Picard: Let's... Talk about that later, shall we?

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Family [4.2], Season 4"
%
Beverly Crusher: If there's nothing wrong with me... maybe there's
                 something wrong with the universe.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Remember Me [4.5], Season 4"
%
Beverly Crusher: We will start with the assumption that I am not
                 crazy.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Remember Me [4.5], Season 4"
%
Beverly Crusher: Computer. Read the entire crew roster for the
                 Enterprise.
Computer: Dr. Beverly Crusher.
Beverly Crusher: Have I always been the only member of the crew on the
                 starship Enterprise?
Computer: Affirmative.
Beverly Crusher: If this were a bad dream, would you tell me?
Computer: That is not a valid question.
Beverly Crusher: Like hell it's not. What is the primary mission of
                 the starship Enterprise?
Computer: To explore the galaxy.
Beverly Crusher: Do I have the necessary skills to complete that
                 mission alone?
Computer: Negative.
Beverly Crusher: Then why am I the only crew member?
Computer: [confused beeping]
Beverly Crusher: Aha. Got you there.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Remember Me [4.5], Season 4"
%
Beverly Crusher: Here's a question you shouldn't be able to
                 answer...Computer: What is the nature of the
                 universe?
Computer: The universe is a spheroid region 705 meters in diameter.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Remember Me [4.5], Season 4"
%
Data: [To Ishara Yar, on friendship] As I experience certain sensory
      input patterns, my mental pathways become accustomed to them.
      The inputs eventually are anticipated. And even missed when
      absent.
Ishara: You mean, you can become "used" to someone.
Data: Exactly.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Legacy [4.6], Season 4"
%
Beverly Crusher: Therapists are always the worst patients. Except for
                 doctors, of course.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Loss [4.10], Season 4"
%
Data: A resumption of our present course at warp six will place us in
      the T'lli Beta system in six days, thirteen hours, forty-seven
      minutes.
William Riker: What, no seconds?
Data: I have discovered, sir, a certain level of impatience when I
      calculate a lengthy time interval to the nearest second.
      However, if you wish...
William Riker: No, no. Minutes is fine.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Loss [4.10], Season 4"
%
Data: I could be pursuing an untamed ornithoid without cause.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Data's Day [4.11], Season 4"
%
Data: [experimenting with "friendly insults and jibes"] My hair does
      not require trimming, you lunkhead.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Data's Day [4.11], Season 4"
%
Data: [performing the tap step he has just learned] Am I dancing,
      Doctor?

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Data's Day [4.11], Season 4"
%
Beverly Crusher: They don't do a lot of tap-dancing at weddings.
Data: Why?
Beverly Crusher: Well, Data, because...I don't really know why, Data.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Data's Day [4.11], Season 4"
%
Benjamin Maxwell: You're a fool, Picard. History will look at you and
                  say, "This man was a fool."
Jean-Luc Picard: I'll accept the judgment of history.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Wounded [4.12], Season 4"
%
Miles O'Brien: It's not you I hate, Cardassian. I hate what I became
               because of you.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Wounded [4.12], Season 4"
%
Jean-Luc Picard: The loyalty you would so quickly dismiss does not
                 come easily to my people, Gul Macet. You have much to
                 learn about us. Benjamin Maxwell earned the loyalty
                 of those who served with him. In war, he was twice
                 honored with the Federation's highest citation for
                 his courage and valor. And if he could not find a
                 role for himself in peace, we can pity him, but we
                 shall not dismiss him.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Wounded [4.12], Season 4"
%
Jean-Luc Picard: In the hands of a con artist, fear can be used to
                 motivate obedience, capitulation, the exploitation of
                 innocent people - and that is what I believe has
                 happened here and I intend to prove that.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Devil's Due [4.13], Season 4"
%
Jean-Luc Picard: I've encountered many who are more credibly to be
                 called the devil than you.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Devil's Due [4.13], Season 4"
%
[after Ardra transports Picard to the planet in his pajamas]

Geordi La Forge: Captain, I wasn't expecting you here.
Jean-Luc Picard: Neither was I.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Devil's Due [4.13], Season 4"
%
Jean-Luc Picard: Never mind, Mr. Worf, just have Commander Data fetch
                 me in a shuttle. And have him bring a uniform.
Worf: Did you say... uniform?

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Devil's Due [4.13], Season 4"
%
Data: The advocate will refrain from making her opponent disappear.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Devil's Due [4.13], Season 4"
%
Data: [after Ardra becomes the Devil] Any more disruptions and I will
      rule you in contempt of court. Is that understood?

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Devil's Due [4.13], Season 4"
%
Beverly Crusher: We have to dream in order to survive.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Night Terrors [4.17], Season 4"
%
[Guinan has just fired a large (very powerful) phaser rifle to break
up a brawl.]

Gillespie: What is that?!
Guinan: Just a little souvenir I picked up on Makus III. That was
        setting number one. Anyone want to see setting number two?

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Night Terrors [4.17], Season 4"
%
[Lt. Barclay has had his intelligence greatly increased by an alien
probe and is attempting to interface with the computer.]

Reginald Barclay: Computer. Begin new program. Create as follows. Work
                  station chair. Now, create a standard alphanumeric
                  console positioned for the left hand. Now an iconic
                  display console positioned for the right hand. Tie
                  both consoles into the Enterprise main computer core
                  utilizing neural scan interface.
Computer: There is no such device on file.
Reginald Barclay: No problem; here's how you build it.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Nth Degree [4.19], Season 4"
%
Reginald Barclay: I perceive the entire universe as a single equation
                  and it's so simple.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Nth Degree [4.19], Season 4"
%
Q: [To Picard] You are the most impossible person to buy a gift for!

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Qpid [4.20], Season 4"
%
Jean-Luc Picard: I've just been paid a visit by Q.
William Riker: Q? Any idea what he's up to?
Jean-Luc Picard: He wants to do something nice for me.
William Riker: I'll alert the crew.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Qpid [4.20], Season 4"
%
[Q has dressed Worf as Will Scarlet.]

Worf: Sir, I protest! I am not a merry man!

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Qpid [4.20], Season 4"
%
[Worf smashes Geordi's mandolin against a tree.]

Worf: ...Sorry.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Qpid [4.20], Season 4"
%
Worf: The Federation does have enemies, we must seek them out!
Jean-Luc Picard: Oh yes, that's how it starts, but the road from
                 legitimate suspicion to rampant paranoia is very much
                 shorter than we think.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Drumhead [4.21], Season 4"
%
Jean-Luc Picard: You know, there are some words I've known since I was
                 a schoolboy. "With the first link, the chain is
                 forged. The first speech censored, the first thought
                 forbidden, the first freedom denied, chains us all
                 irrevocably." Those words were uttered by Judge Aaron
                 Satie as wisdom and warning. The first time any man's
                 freedom is trodden on, we're all damaged.
Adm. Norah Satie: How dare you! You who consort with Romulans! Invoke
                  my father's name in support of your traitorous
                  arguments! It is an affront to everything I hold
                  dear. And to hear his name used to subvert the
                  United Federation of Planets. My father was a great
                  man. His name stands for principle, and integrity!
                  You dirty his name when you speak it! He loved the
                  Federation! But you, Captain, corrupt it! You
                  undermine our very way of life! I will expose you
                  for what you are! I've brought down bigger men than
                  you, Picard!

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Drumhead [4.21], Season 4"
%
Jenna D'Sora: I wish we were back there now, you and I.
Data: The unidirectional nature of the time continuum makes that an
      unlikely possibility.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: In Theory [4.25], Season 4"
%
Geordi La Forge: Listen, my advice is... ask somebody else for advice,
                 at least someone who's got more experience at...
                 giving advice.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: In Theory [4.25], Season 4"
%
Deanna Troi: Ultimately Jenna will care for you for who you are, not
             what you imitate out of a book.
Data: My programming may be inadequate to the task.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: In Theory [4.25], Season 4"
%
Worf: Klingons do not... pursue relationships. They conquer that which
      they desire.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: In Theory [4.25], Season 4"
%
Worf: However, Lieutenant D'Sora serves under my command. If she
      were.. mistreated, I would be very displeased... ...Sir.
Data: I understand.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: In Theory [4.25], Season 4"
%
Jean-Luc Picard: I'd be delighted to offer any advice I have on
                 understanding women. When I have some, I'll let you
                 know.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: In Theory [4.25], Season 4"
%
Data: Computer, decrease illumination level by 1/3 standard lux.
Jenna D'Sora: Eh, this is all part of a programme?
Data: Yes, one which I have just created for romantic relationships
Jenna D'Sora: So, I am just a small variable in one of you
              computational environments.
Data: You are much more than that, Jenna. I have written a subroutine
      specifically for you. A programme within the programme. I have
      devoted a considerable share of my internal resources to its
      development.
Jenna D'Sora: Data, that's the nicest thing anybody has ever said to
              me.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: In Theory [4.25], Season 4"
%
Dathon: Rai and Jiri at Lungha. Ri of Luwani. Luwani under two moons.
        Jiri of Ubaya. Ubaya of crossed roads at Lungha. Lungha, her
        sky grey. [greeting]

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Darmok [5.2], Season 5"
%
Tamarian lst Officer: Kadir beneath Mo Moteh. [cluelessness, possibly
                      unwillingness to understand]
Dathon: The river Temarc. In winter. [Stop, cease]

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Darmok [5.2], Season 5"
%
Dathon: Shaka. When the walls fell. [Failure]

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Darmok [5.2], Season 5"
%
Tamarian lst Officer: Mirab. His sails unfurled. [travel or departure]

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Darmok [5.2], Season 5"
%
[repeated line]

Dathon: Darmok and Jalad at Tenagra. [Two strangers uniting against a
        common adversary]

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Darmok [5.2], Season 5"
%
Dathon: Temba. His arms wide. [A gift, or to give]

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Darmok [5.2], Season 5"
%
Dathon: Uzani. His army with fist open.
Jean-Luc Picard: A strategy? With fist open? With fist open...
Dathon: His army with fist closed.
Jean-Luc Picard: With fist closed? An army with fist open... to lure
                 the enemy. With fist closed... To attack? That's how
                 you communicate, isn't it? By citing example. By
                 metaphor! Uzani's army with... with fist open.
Dathon: Sokath! His eyes uncovered! [understanding, revealing truth]

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Darmok [5.2], Season 5"
%
Dathon: Darmok on the ocean. [Alone, isolated]

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Darmok [5.2], Season 5"
%
Dathon: [telling the story of Darmok and Jalad]
Darmok on the ocean.

Tanagra on the ocean. Darmok at Tanagra.

Jalad on the ocean. Jalad at Tanagra.

The beast of Tanagra.

Darmok and Jalad on the ocean.


	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Darmok [5.2], Season 5"
%
Dathon: Kiazi's children. Their faces wet. [death, mourning]

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Darmok [5.2], Season 5"
%
Dathon: Zinda! His face black. His eyes red. [war, violence] Callimas
        at Bahar.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Darmok [5.2], Season 5"
%
Jean-Luc Picard: [paraphrasing The Epic of Gilgamesh] Gilgamesh, a
                 king. Gilgamesh, a king at Uruk. [metaphor about
                 ancient Babylonian legends from Earth] He tormented
                 his subjects. He made them angry. They cried out
                 aloud: "Send us a companion for our king! Spare us
                 from his madness!" Enkidu, a wild man from the
                 forest, entered the city. They fought in the temple.
                 They fought in the streets. Gilgamesh defeated
                 Enkidu. They became great friends. Gilgamesh and
                 Enkidu at Uruk.
Dathon: At Uruk.
Jean-Luc Picard: The... the new friends went out into the desert
                 together, where the Great Bull of Heaven was killing
                 men by the hundreds. Enkidu caught the bull by the
                 tail, Gilgamesh struck him with his sword.
Dathon: Gilgamesh.
Jean-Luc Picard: They were victorious. But... Enkidu fell to the
                 ground, struck down by the gods; and Gilgamesh wept
                 bitter tears, saying, "He who was my companion
                 through adventure and hardship, [as Dathon dies] is
                 gone forever."

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Darmok [5.2], Season 5"
%
Picard: Yes, Ensign Laren, please sit down -
Ensign Ro: Ensign Ro, sir.
Picard: (nonplussed) I beg your pardon?
Ensign Ro: The Bajoran custom has the family name first, the
           individual's name second. I am more properly addressed as
           'Ensign Ro'.
Picard: I'm sorry, I didn't know.
Ensign Ro: (shrugging) No, there's no reason you should. It's an old
           custom; most Bajora these days accept the distortion of
           their names in order to assimilate. (she sits) I do not.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Ensign Ro [5.3], Season 5"
%
Keeve: I cannot condone violence against people who are not our enemy.
Jean-Luc Picard: Then I don't understand why you're unwilling [to help
                 us].
Keeve: Because... you're innocent bystanders. You were innocent
       bystanders for decades as the Cardassians took our homes. As
       they violated and tortured our people in the most hideous ways
       imaginable. As we were forced to flee.
Picard: We were saddened by those events, but they occurred within the
        borders of the Cardassian Empire.
Keeve: And the Federation is pledged not to interfere with the
       internal affairs of others. How convenient that must be for
       you. To turn a deaf ear to those who suffer behind a line on a
       map.
Picard: Well, I'm not here to debate Federation policy with you, but I
        can offer you assistance.
Keeve: Simply because of one terrorist attack? Well, perhaps I should
       have known, we should have attacked the Federation long ago.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Ensign Ro [5.3], Season 5"
%
Keeve: We live in different universes, you and I. Yours is about
       diplomacy, politics, strategy. Mine is about blankets! If we
       were to exchange places for one night, you might better
       understand.
Picard: Mr. Data, see that the replicators provide a blanket for every
        man, woman, and child before nightfall.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Ensign Ro [5.3], Season 5"
%
Guinan: Am I disturbing you?
Ensign Ro: Yes.
Guinan: Good. You look like someone who wants to be disturbed.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Ensign Ro [5.3], Season 5"
%
Guinan: I believe truth is in the eye of the beholder.
Ensign Ro: Isn't that supposed to be beauty?
Guinan: Truth, beauty, works for a lot of things.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Ensign Ro [5.3], Season 5"
%
Jean-Luc Picard: [Touches comm badge] Bridge, this is Picard. This is
                 the captain, does anyone read me?
Child 1: [crying] Why don't they answer?!
Picard: I don't know.
Child 2: They're all dead.
Picard: They're not dead, communication is down, that's all.
Child 2: We're going to die, too.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Disaster [5.5], Season 5"
%
Worf: Congratulations. You are now fully dilated to ten centimeters.
      You may now give birth.
Keiko O'Brien: That's what I've been doing!
Worf: The computer simulation was not like this. That delivery was
      very orderly.
Keiko: WELL I'M SORRY!!

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Disaster [5.5], Season 5"
%
Spock: [to Picard] In your own way, you are as stubborn as another
       Captain of the Enterprise I once knew.
Jean-Luc Picard: Then I'm in good company, sir.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Unification, Part II [5.8], Season 5"
%
Spock: Fascinating. You have an efficient intellect, superior physical
       skills, no emotional impediments. There are Vulcans who aspire
       all their lives to achieve what you've been given by design.
Data: You are half human?
Spock: Yes.
Data: Yet you have chosen a Vulcan way of life?
Spock: I have.
Data: In effect, you have abandoned what I have sought all my life.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Unification, Part II [5.8], Season 5"
%
Data: Ambassador Spock, may I ask a personal question?
Spock: Please.
Data: As you examine your life, do you find you have missed your
      humanity?
Spock: I have no regrets.
Data: "No regrets". That is a human expression.
Spock: Yes. Fascinating.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Unification, Part II [5.8], Season 5"
%
Omag: [on Worf and Amarie singing in Klingon] What is that dreadful
      noise?! It sounds like a Bardakian pronghorn moose!

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Unification, Part II [5.8], Season 5"
%
[Troi and Data are in Ten-Forward, when all of the crew lose their
memories]

Deanna Troi: The bartender is an artificial lifeform.
Data: Can I get you something? A beverage?

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Conundrum [5.14], Season 5"
%
Jean-Luc Picard: Contact the operations officer to assist you.
Geordi La Forge: Aye, sir.
Ensign Ro: He's in Ten-Forward... waiting tables.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Conundrum [5.14], Season 5"
%
William Riker: Sometimes I wonder if he's stacking the deck.
Data: I assure you, commander, the cards have been sufficiently
      randomized.
Worf: [surly] I hope so.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Cause and Effect [5.18], Season 5"
%
[at a poker game]

Worf: I am experiencing nIb'poH, the feeling I have done this before.
Riker: Yes, last Tuesday night.
Worf: That's not what I mean.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Cause and Effect [5.18], Season 5"
%
Jean-Luc Picard: My aunt Adelle cured a lot of sleepless nights with
                 this steaming milk.
Beverly Crusher: Thank you. Mmm, nutmeg.
Picard: Whenever I get insomnia, I try to perfect the recipe.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Cause and Effect [5.18], Season 5"
%
Jean-Luc Picard: [to a disengaged Borg male teen, in the manner of
                 "Locutus"] This is a primitive culture. I am here to
                 facilitate its incorporation.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: I, Borg [5.23], Season 5"
%
Beverly Crusher: But even in war there are rules. You don't kill
                 civilians indiscriminately.
William T. Riker: There are no civilians among the Borg.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: I, Borg [5.23], Season 5"
%
Hugh: We are Hugh.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: I, Borg [5.23], Season 5"
%
Hugh: Resistance is not futile?

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: I, Borg [5.23], Season 5"
%
Ro Laren: I don't have all the answers; I've never been dead before.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Next Phase [5.24], Season 5"
%
 This tree is our symbol. Our affirmation of Life, and everyone in
this town gives part of their water rations to keep it alive. We've
learned, administrator, that hope is a powerful weapon against
anything, even drought.

 Seize the time … Live now. Make now always the most precious time.
Now will never come again.

 Screenplay by Morgan Gendel and Peter Allan Fields. This episode won
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 h
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 h
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 h
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 )
 The rest of us have been gone for a thousand years. If you remember
what we were, and how we lived, then we’ll have found life again.

Eline: [to Jean-Luc Picard] You think that this — your life — is a
       dream?
Jean-Luc Picard: This is not my life! I know that much.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Inner Light [5.25], Season 5"
%
Picard: Would you try to answer some questions for me? No matter how
        strange they may seem to you?
Eline: Of course.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Inner Light [5.25], Season 5"
%
Eline: The happiest day of my life was the day we got married.
Picard: And what do I do — here in Ressik?
Eline: You are the best iron weaver in the community — at least I
       think so. You prefer playing the flute, of course.
Picard: The flute?
Eline: Yes. [she gets up, finds his flute and hands it to him]
Picard: When did I learn to play this?
Eline: I'm afraid you never did, dear. You do keep trying.
Picard: [blows a few feeble notes] I see what you mean. … Well, thank
        you for the soup. Thank you for your help. Tomorrow, will you
        help me send a message?
Eline: Of course. Will you come to bed?
Picard: Oh, I'll sleep here.
Eline: Kamin, please come with me.
Picard: I've been sick. I'd be tossing and turning, it wouldn't be
        fair to you.
Eline: Let me be the judge of that.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Inner Light [5.25], Season 5"
%
Eline: I think you're still trying to figure out where you are. Where
       that ship of yours is. How to get back to that life.
Picard/Kamin: The memory is five years old now, but it's still inside
              me.
Eline: Was your life there so much better than this? So much more
       gratifying, so much more fulfilling, that you cling to it with
       such stubbornness?
Picard/Kamin: Eline.
Eline: It must have been extraordinary. But never in all the stories
       you've told me have you mentioned anyone who loved you as I do.
Picard/Kamin: It was real. It was as real as this is. And you can't
              expect me to forget a life-time spent there.
Eline: Yes, I can. I've been patient Kamin. For five years I've shared
       you with that other life. I’ve listened, I’ve tried to
       understand, and I have waited. When do I get you back?

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Inner Light [5.25], Season 5"
%
Batai: This tree is our symbol. Our affirmation of Life, and everyone
       in this town gives part of their water rations to keep it
       alive. We've learned, administrator, that hope is a powerful
       weapon against anything, even drought.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Inner Light [5.25], Season 5"
%
Meribor: You've taught me to pursue the truth, no matter how painful
         it is. It's too late to back off now. This planet is dying.
Picard/Kamin: Perhaps I should have filled your head with trivial
              concerns. Games and toys and clothes.
Meribor: I don't think you mean that.
Picard/Kamin: No, I don't. It just saddens me to see you burdened with
              the knowledge of things you can't change.
Meribor: Father, I think I should marry Dannick sooner rather than
         later, don't you?
Picard/Kamin: Seize the time, Meribor. Live now. Make now always the
              most precious time. Now will never come again.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Inner Light [5.25], Season 5"
%
Jean-Luc Picard: [referring to disembodied head] Data, is this yours?
Data: I believe so, sir.
Jean-Luc Picard: Could it be... Lore?
Data: No, sir. My brother's positronic brain has a Type-L phase
      discriminating amplifier. Mine is a Type-R.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Time's Arrow, Part I [5.26], Season 5"
%
Scotty: You're not quite uh...human, are ya?
Data: No, sir. I am an android. Lieutenant Commander Data.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Relics [6.4], Season 6"
%
Scotty: [inspecting his drink] What is it?
Data: It is... [sniffs the bottle] it is... [sniffs the bottle again,
      looking puzzled] ...it is green. (An echo of Scotty's comment to
      the Andromedan/Kelvan alien Tomar in TOS' By Any Other Name)

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Relics [6.4], Season 6"
%
[Scotty is outside the Holodeck]


Computer: Please enter program.
Scotty: The android at the bar said you could show me my old ship, let
        me see it.
Computer: Insufficient data. Please specify parameters.
Scotty: The Enterprise, show me the bridge of the Enterprise, ya
        chattering piece of-
Computer: There have been five Federation ships with that name. Please
          specify by registry number.
Scotty: NCC-1701. No bloody A, B, C, or D.
Computer: Program complete. Enter when ready.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Relics [6.4], Season 6"
%
Edward Jellico: Data, I want to be in Minos Korva... in one hour.
Data: Set course 350 mark 215 and engage warp 8.5.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Chain of Command, Part II [6.11], Season 6"
%
Gul Madred: I remember the first time I ate a live taspar. I was six
            years old and living on the streets of Lakat. There was a
            band of children, four, five...six years old—some even
            smaller, desperately trying to survive. We were thin,
            scrawny little animals, constantly hungry, always cold. We
            slept together in doorways, like packs of wild gettles,
            for warmth. Once I found a nest. Taspars had mated and
            built a nest in the eave of a burned-out building. And I
            found three eggs in it. It was like finding treasure. I
            cracked one open on the spot and ate it, very much as you
            just did. I planned to save the other two. They would keep
            me alive for another week. But of course, an older boy saw
            them and wanted them. And he got them. But he had to break
            my arm to do it.
Jean-Luc Picard: Must be rewarding to you to...to repay others for all
                 those years of misery.
Gul Madred: What do you mean?
Jean-Luc Picard: Torture has never been a reliable means of extracting
                 information. It is ultimately self-defeating as a
                 means of control. One wonders it is still practiced.
Gul Madred: I fail to see where this analysis is leading.
Jean-Luc Picard: Whenever I look at you now, I will not see a powerful
                 cardassian warrior; I will see a six-year-old boy who
                 is powerless to protect himself.
Gul Madred: Be quiet!
Jean-Luc Picard: In spite of all you have done to me, I find you a
                 pitiable man.
Gul Madred: Picard, stop it. Or I will turn this on and leave you in
            agony all night!
Jean-Luc Picard: Aha! You called me "Picard!"
Gul Madred: What are the Federation's defense plans for Minos Korva?
Jean-Luc Picard: There are four lights!

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Chain of Command, Part II [6.11], Season 6"
%
Edward Jellico: Let's drop ranks for a moment. I don't like you. I
                believe you're arrogant, insubordinate, willful. I
                don't think you're a particularly good First Officer.
William Riker: Well, now that the ranks are dropped, Captain...I don't
               like you, either. You ARE arrogant, and closed-minded.
               You need to control everyone and everything. You don't
               provide an atmosphere of trust, and you don't inspire
               these people to go out of their way for you. You've got
               everyone wound up so tight, there's no joy in anything.
               I don't think you're a particularly good Captain.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Chain of Command, Part II [6.11], Season 6"
%
Jean-Luc Picard: There...are...four...lights!

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Chain of Command, Part II [6.11], Season 6"
%
Q: (Shakes Picard's hand) Welcome to the Afterlife Jean-Luc...You're
   dead!

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Tapestry [6.15], Season 6"
%
Q: You're dead, this is the afterlife...and I'm God
Jean-Luc Picard: You are not God!
Q: Blasphemy! You're lucky I don't cast you out or smite you or
   something. The bottom line is, your life ended about five minutes
   ago... under the inept ministrations of Dr. Beverly Crusher.
Jean-Luc Picard: No. I am not dead. Because I refuse to believe that
                 the afterlife is run by you. The universe is not so
                 badly designed!

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Tapestry [6.15], Season 6"
%
Q: Attention on deck, Ensign Picard!
Picard: Q.
Q: That's Captain Q to you, Young man!

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Tapestry [6.15], Season 6"
%
Q: You cheated, Picard? I'm impressed!

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Tapestry [6.15], Season 6"
%
Jean-Luc Picard: There are many parts of my youth that I'm not proud
                 of. There were loose threads - untidy parts of me
                 that I would like to remove. But when I pulled on one
                 of those threads, it unraveled the tapestry of my
                 life.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Tapestry [6.15], Season 6"
%
Worf: There is no room in my heart for shame.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Birthright, Part II [6.17], Season 6"
%
Jean-Luc Picard:Will. The Claran civilization believed that an
                 individual is a community of individuals. Inside us
                 are many voices, each with its own desires, its own
                 style, its own view of the world.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Chase [6.20], Season 6"
%
[After Nu'Daq arm wrestles and head-butts Data]

Data: My upper spinal support is a poly-alloy designed to withstand
      extreme stress. My skull is composed of cortenide and duranium.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Chase [6.20], Season 6"
%
Data: You are attempting to bribe me.
Nu'Daq: N-Not at all.
Data: You suggested a plan that would work to your advantage. One that
      I would be capable of executing. You then implied a reward.
      Clearly you were...
Nu'Daq: Commander..., never mind.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Chase [6.20], Season 6"
%
Nu'Daq: What?! You incompetent  toppa'

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Chase [6.20], Season 6"
%
Gul Ocett: He's right. For all we know, this might just be a recipe
           for biscuits!
Nu'Daq: BISCUITS?! If that is what you believe, then go back to
        Cardassia. I will send you my mother's recipe.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Chase [6.20], Season 6"
%
Ancient Humanoid: You're wondering who we are. Why we have done this.
                  I stand before you, the image of a being from so
                  long ago. Life evolved on my planet, before all
                  others in this part of the galaxy. We left our
                  world, explored the stars, and found none like
                  ourselves. Our civilization thrived for ages. But
                  what is the life of one race, compared to the vast
                  stretches of cosmic time? We knew that one day we
                  would be gone, and that nothing of us would survive.
                  So we left you. Our scientists seeded the primordial
                  oceans of many worlds, where life was in its
                  infancy. The seed codes directed your evolution
                  towards a physical form resembling ours. This body
                  you see before you, which is of course shaped as
                  yours is shaped, for you are the end result. The
                  seed codes also contained this message, which was
                  scattered in fragments on many different worlds. It
                  was our hope that you would have to come together in
                  fellowship and companionship to hear this message.
                  And if you can see and hear me, our hope has been
                  fulfilled. You are a monument, not to our greatness,
                  but to our existence. That was our wish. That you
                  too, would know life, and would keep alive our
                  memory. There is something of us in each of you. And
                  so, something of you in each other. Remember us.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: The Chase [6.20], Season 6"
%
Data: May I ask a personal favor?
Worf: Yes?
Data: Will you take care of Spot for me?
Worf: Your animal?
Data: I am concerned that if I have another waking dream, I may injure
      him.
Worf: Of course. Spot, come here.
Data: Unlike a canine, Spot will not respond to verbal commands.
[Data picks up Spot and hands him to Worf, who is not quite sure how
to handle the cat.]

Data: Goodbye, Spot. He will need to be fed once a day. He prefers
      feline supplement one-twenty-five.
Worf: I understand.
Data: And he will require water. And you must also provide him with a
      sand box. And you must talk to him. Tell him he is a pretty cat,
      and a good cat, and—
Worf: I will feed him.
Data: Perhaps that will be enough.
[Wolf walks away still awkwardly holding Spot as we hear Worf sneeze
and Spot hiss in response.]


	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Phantasms [7.6], Season 7"
%
[Data is trying to train Spot not to jump on his computer console.]

Data: This is down. Down is good.
[Data picks Spot up.]

Data: This is up. Up is no.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Force of Nature [7.9], Season 7"
%
Data: Geordi,…what…does it feel like…when a person is losing his mind?

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: Masks [7.17], Season 7"
%
Q: Oh, you'd like me to connect the dots for you, lead you from A to B
   to C, so that your puny mind could comprehend. How boring.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: All Good Things... [7.25], Season 7"
%
Q: Goodbye, Jean-Luc. I'm gonna miss you…you had such potential. But
   then again, all good things must come to an end…

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: All Good Things... [7.25], Season 7"
%
[In Future Timeline]

Geordi: [In distance] Captain Picard to the bridge. Captain we've got
        a problem with the warp core, or the phase inducers, or some
        other damn thing.
Picard: Geordi!

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: All Good Things... [7.25], Season 7"
%
[At Cambridge University where Data holds the Lucasian Chair.]

Jessel: If you're really his friend you'll get him to take that gray
        out of his hair.
Data: Jessel...
Jessel: Looks like a bloody skunk.
Data: She can be frightfull trying at times, but, she does make me
      laugh.
Geordi: Data, what is it with the hair anyway?
Data: I've found that a touch of gray adds an air of distinction.
Picard: You say this is Earl Grey, I'd swear that it was Darjeeling.
Jessel: Hmm.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: All Good Things... [7.25], Season 7"
%
Q: Time may be eternal, Captain, but our patience is not. It's time to
   put an end to your little "trek" through the stars; make room for
   other more…worthy species.
Jean-Luc Picard: You're...going to deny us travel through space?
Q: [to crowd] He doesn't understand! [to Picard] You obtuse piece of
   flotsam, you are to be denied existence. Humanity's fate has been
   sealed, you will be destroyed.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: All Good Things... [7.25], Season 7"
%
[In Future Timeline]

Q: [Appearing aged, raises an ear trumpet] Eh?  What did she say,
   sonny? I couldn't quite hear her.
Jean-Luc Picard: Q! What is going on? Where is the anomaly?
Q: Where's your mommy? Well, I don't know!

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: All Good Things... [7.25], Season 7"
%
Q: You just don't get it, do you, Jean-Luc? The trial never ends. We
   wanted to see if you had the ability to expand your mind and your
   horizons. And for one brief moment, you did.
Jean-Luc Picard: When I realized the paradox.
Q: Exactly. For that one fraction of a second, you were open to
   options you had never considered. That is the exploration that
   awaits you. Not mapping stars and studying nebulae, but charting
   the unknowable possibilities of existence.
Jean-Luc Picard: Q, what is it you're trying to tell me?
[Q considers, then opens his mouth as if to answer...but changes his
mind, steps back and smiles]

Q: You'll find out. In any case, I'll be watching. And if you're very
   lucky I'll drop by to say hello from time to time. See you...out
   there.

	"Star Trek: The Next Generation: All Good Things... [7.25], Season 7"
%
[Picard is playing poker with the senior staff for the first time.]

Jean-Luc Picard: I should have done this a long time ago.
Deanna Troi: You were always welcome.
Jean-Luc Picard: So, five-card stud, nothing wild... and the sky's the
                 limit.
[Final line of the series]
%
